# SangerSeqAlign
Aligns sanger sequencing read files (.abi) to a plasmid reference file (.gb) and returns useful information for each read like % match, which strand the match was on, and which features (coding sequences, primers, etc.) are contained within the alignment. Especially useful for determining the quality for a large # of reads that may be used to determine if cloning was successful.

USAGE:
Use this program (https://colab.research.google.com/gist/joshmcgee1/5ad9a782f7beee28762dc74821507b8b/sanger-sequence-align.ipynb) to obtain quick information regarding the alignment of multiple sanger sequencing reads to a genbank file containing the reference information of a plasmid of interest. The program functions using SeqIO to perform a pairwise alignment between the referene file and each sanger sequencing read. For each read, the .abi file is quality trimmed via Mott's algorithm. The algorithm will attempt an alignment in the forward direction, if the match is poor then an alignment will be performed in the reverse direction. Along the way, information regarding # of matched bps and which features are contained within the matched regions are stored. In the output, the alignments can be visually seen. When the code finishes running, a fasta file containing the sequences of strong reads will be downloaded. Additionally, an excel file containing the names of the reads, the % matched bps of each read, the strand matched to, and the relevant features from the reference plasmid matched will be downloaded.
